# Bid Number: GEM/2025/B/6757790
## Dated: 07-10-2025

### Bid Document
#### Bid Details
- **Bid End Date/Time:** 28-10-2025 15:00:00
- **Bid Opening Date/Time:** 28-10-2025 15:30:00
- **Bid Offer Validity (From End Date):** 90 Days

### Ministry/State Name
- **Ministry Of Steel**

### Department Name
- **Steel Authority Of India Limited**

### Organisation Name
- **Sail Refractory Unit**

### Office Name
- **Sru Sail**

### Item Category
- **Custom Bid for Services - MANUALLY LOADING AND STACKING OF 25 or 50 KG CAPACITY BAGGED OF REFRACTORY MATERIAL ON TO TRUCKS**

### Similar Category
- **Handling and Transport on Lumpsum Basis**

### Contract Period
- **1 Year(s)**

### Experience of Similar Services Required
- **Yes**

### MSE Exemption for Years of Experience and Turnover
- **No**

### Startup Exemption for Years of Experience and Turnover
- **No**

### Document Required
- *In case any bidder is seeking exemption from Experience / Turnover Criteria, the supporting documents to prove his eligibility for exemption must be uploaded for evaluation by the buyer.*

### Do you want to show documents uploaded by bidders to all bidders participated in bid?
- **Yes** (Documents submitted as part of a clarification or representation during the tender/bid process will also be displayed to other participated bidders after log in)

# Bid Details

- Minimum number of bids required to disable automatic bid extension: **3**
- Number of days for which Bid would be auto-extended: **7**
- Number of Auto Extension count: **3**
- Bid to RA enabled: **Yes**
- RA Qualification Rule: **H1-Highest Priced Bid Elimination**
- ITC available to buyer: **Yes**
- Type of Bid: **Two Packet Bid**
- Time allowed for Technical Clarifications during technical evaluation: **2 Days**
- Estimated Bid Value: **1575499.42**
- Evaluation Method: **Total value wise evaluation**
- Financial Document Indicating Price Breakup Required: **Yes**

# EMD Detail

- Advisory Bank: **State Bank of India**
- EMD Amount: **15000**

# ePBG Detail

- Advisory Bank: **State Bank of India**
- ePBG Percentage(%): **3.00**
- Duration of ePBG required (Months): **12**

## EMD Exemption

The bidder seeking EMD exemption must submit the valid supporting document.

## Beneficiary:
- SR MANAGER
SRU SAIL, Steel Authority of India Limited, SAIL Refractory Unit, Ministry of Steel
(Vipin Kumar)

## Bid Splitting
- Bid splitting not applied.

## MII Compliance
- MII Compliance: Yes

## Estimated Bid Value
1. The estimated bid value is declared solely for guidance on EMD amount and for determining eligibility criteria related to turnover, past performance, and project/past experience.
2. This has no relevance on the price quoted by bidders and will not impact bid participation or the reasonableness of quoted prices.

## Past Experience of Similar Services
- The bidder must have successfully executed/completed similar services over the last three years:
3. One similar completed service costing not less than 80% of the estimated cost.

## Reverse Auction
- Reverse Auction will be conducted among all technically qualified bidders except the highest quoting bidder.
- The technically qualified highest quoting bidder will not participate in RA, except in the following cases:
- If the number of technically qualified bidders is only 2 or 3.
- If the buyer has chosen to split the bid among N sellers, and H1 bid is within N.
- If only one OEM's primary product remains for RA after eliminating H-1.
- If L-1 is non-MSE and H-1 is eligible MSE, and H-1 price is within 15% of non-MSE L-1.
- If L-1 is non-MII and H-1 is eligible MII, and H-1 price is within 20% of non-MII L-1.

## MSE Purchase Preference
- If the buyer mentions MSE purchase preference in ATC, the service provider must upload necessary documents for verification during evaluation.

## Additional Qualification/Data Required
- Scope of Work: 1759746563.pdf
- Payment Terms: 1759746600.pdf
- GEM Availability Report (GAR): 1759746626.pdf
- Undertaking of Competent Authority is mandatory to create Custom Bid for Services. Please download the standard format document and upload: 1759746685.pdf

## Custom Bid For Services
- Manually loading and stacking of 25 or 50 kg capacity bagged refractory material onto trucks.

# तकनीक
## विश  याँ /Technical Specifications

### ववरण / Specification
- मू य / Values

### कोर / Core
- Description / Nomenclature of Service Proposed: MANUALLY LOADING AND STACKING OF 25 or 50 KG CAPACITY BAGGED OF REFRACTORY MATERIAL ON TO TRUCKS
- Regulatory/ Statutory Compliance of Service: YES
- Compliance of Service to SOW, STC, SLA etc: YES

## एडऑन / Addon(s)

### इनपुट कर / Input Tax Credit(ITC) and Reverse Charge(RCM) Details
- जीएसट पर इनपुट कर / ITC on GST: 100%
- जीएसट उपकर कर / ITC on GST Cess: 100%

## अित र विश  द तावेज़ / Additional Specification Documents

### परे षती / Consignees/Reporting Officer and Quantity
- संसाधन क मा / The quantity of procurement
- .सं. / S.N
- अिधकार / Consignee Reporting/Officer
- पता / Address
- "1" indicates / Additional Requirement
- 1. Jogeswar Guiya, 829132, SAIL REFRACTORY UNIT BHANDARIDAH, P.O. BHANDARIDAH- 829132, DIST BOKARO

## Buyer Added Bid Specific Terms and Conditions
1. **Generic**
- OPTION CLAUSE: The buyer can increase or decrease the contract quantity or contract duration up to 25 percent at the time of issue of the contract. However, once the contract is issued, contract quantity or contract duration can only be increased up to 25 percent. Bidders are bound to accept the revised quantity or duration.

### Actual Delivery Address
- SAIL REFRACTORY UNIT
- BHANDARIDAH
- DIST: BOKARO
- PO: BHANDARIDAH – 829132
- JHARKHAND

- **Escalation Matrix For Service Support**: Bidder/OEM must provide Escalation Matrix of Telephone Numbers for Service Support.

- **Dedicated/Toll Free Telephone No. for Service Support**: BIDDER/OEM must have Dedicated/toll Free Telephone No. for Service Support.

### Buyer Added Bid Specific ATC
- Buyer uploaded ATC document Click here to view the file.

### Disclaimer
The additional terms and conditions have been incorporated by the Buyer after approval of the Competent Authority in Buyer Organization, whereby Buyer organization is solely responsible for the impact of these clauses on the bidding process, its outcome, and consequences thereof including any eccentricity/restriction arising in the bidding process due to these ATCs and due to modification of technical specifications and/or terms and conditions governing the bid. If any clause(s) is/are incorporated by the Buyer regarding the following, the bid and resultant contracts shall be treated as null and void and such bids may be cancelled by GeM at any stage of the bidding process without any notice:

1. Definition of Class I and Class II suppliers in the bid not in line with the extant Order/Office Memorandum issued by DPIIT in this regard.
3. Publishing Custom/BOQ bids for items for which regular GeM categories are available without any Category item bunched with it.
4. Creating BoQ bid for a single item.
5. Mentioning specific Brand or Make or Model or Manufacturer or Dealer name.
6. Mandating submission of documents in physical form as a pre-requisite to qualify bidders.
7. Floating/creation of work contracts as Custom Bids in Services.
8. Seeking sample with bid or approval of samples during bid evaluation process. (However, in bids for attached categories, trials are allowed as per approved procurement policy of the buyer nodal Ministries)
9. Mandating foreign/international certifications even in case of existence of Indian Standards without specifying equivalent Indian Certification/standards.
10. Seeking experience from specific organization/department/institute only or from foreign/export experience.
11. Creating bid for items from irrelevant categories.
12. Incorporating any clause against the MSME policy and Preference to Make in India Policy.
13. Reference of conditions published on any external site or reference to external documents/clauses.
14. Asking for any Tender fee/Bid Participation fee/Auction fee in case of Bids/Forward Auction, as the case may be.
15. Any ATC clause in contravention with GeM GTC Clause 4 (xiii)(h) will be invalid. In case of multiple L1 bidders against a service bid, the buyer shall place the Contract by selection of a bidder amongst the L-1 bidders through a Random Algorithm executed by GeM system.

### Buyer Added ATC Clauses
- Buyer added ATC Clauses contravene clauses defined in the system-generated bid template.
- Exceptions allowed only by GeM GTC.

### Category Based Bid
- Additional items must be added through:
- Bunching category-based items
- Bunching custom catalogs
- Bunching a BoQ with the main category-based item
- Must not be done through ATC or Scope of Work.

### Seller Representation
- Sellers can raise objections/grievances within 4 days of bid publication using the Representation window in the Seller dashboard.

### Compliance with Laws
- All GeM Sellers/Service Providers must comply with applicable laws, including:
- The Minimum Wages Act, 1948
- The Payment of Wages Act, 1936
- The Payment of Bonus Act, 1965
- The Equal Remuneration Act, 1976
- The Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972

### Governing Terms
- Bid governed by General Terms and Conditions and Service Level Agreement.
- In case of contradiction, Service Level Agreement conditions will override General Terms and Conditions.

### Restrictions on Procurement
- As per GeM GTC clause 26, bidders from countries sharing a land border with India must be registered with the Competent Authority.

---ध यवाद/Thank You---