# GeM Bid Document

## Bid Number:
GEM/2025/B/6757790

## Dated:
07-10-2025

## Bid Details

- **Bid End Date/Time:** 28-10-2025 15:00:00
- **Bid Opening Date/Time:** 28-10-2025 15:30:00
- **Bid Offer Validity (From End Date):** 90 Days

## Ministry/State Name
Ministry Of Steel

## Department Name
Steel Authority Of India Limited

## Organisation Name
Sail Refractory Unit

## Office Name
Sru Sail

## Item Category
Custom Bid for Services - MANUALLY LOADING AND STACKING OF 25 or 50 KG CAPACITY BAGGED OF REFRACTORY MATERIAL ON TO TRUCKS

## Similar Category
Handling and Transport on Lumpsum Basis

## Contract Period
1 Year(s)

## Experience of Similar Services required
Yes

## MSE Exemption for Years of Experience and Turnover
No

## Startup Exemption for Years of Experience and Turnover
No

## Document required
*In case any bidder is seeking exemption from Experience / Turnover Criteria, the supporting documents to prove his eligibility for exemption must be uploaded for evaluation by the buyer.

## Do you want to show documents uploaded by bidders to all bidders participated in bid?
Yes (Documents submitted as part of a clarification or representation during the tender/bid process will also be displayed to other participated bidders after log in)

# बड ववरण / Bid Details

- बड लगाने क समय सीमा वतः नह ं बढ़ाने के लिए आव यक बड क सं या।
/ Minimum number of bids required to disable automatic bid extension: **3**

- दन क सं या, जनके लिए बड लगाने क समय-सीमा बढ़ाई जाएगी।
/ Number of days for which Bid would be auto-extended: **7**

- ऑटो ए सट शन अिधकतम कतनी बार कया जाना है।
/ Number of Auto Extension count: **3**

- बड से रवस नीलामी स य कया
/ Bid to RA enabled: **Yes**

- रवस नीलामी यो यता िनयम
/ RA Qualification Rule: **H1-Highest Priced Bid Elimination**

- ईता के िलए उपल ध आईट सी
/ ITC available to buyer: **Yes**

- बड का कार
/ Type of Bid: **Two Packet Bid**

- तकनीक मू यांकन के दौरान तकनीक प ीकरण हेतु अनुमत समय
/ Time allowed for Technical Clarifications during technical evaluation: **2 Days**

- अनुमािनत बड मू य
/ Estimated Bid Value: **1575499.42**

- मू यांकन प ित
/ Evaluation Method: **Total value wise evaluation**

- मू य दशा ने वाला व ीय द तावेज  ेकअप आव यक है
/ Financial Document Indicating Price Breakup Required: **Yes**

# ईएमड ववरण / EMD Detail

- एडवाईजर ब क
/ Advisory Bank: **State Bank of India**

- ईएमड रािश
/ EMD Amount: **15000**

# ईपीबीजी ववरण / ePBG Detail

- एडवाइजर ब क
/ Advisory Bank: **State Bank of India**

- ईपीबीजी  ितशत (%)
/ ePBG Percentage(%): **3.00**

- ईपीबीजी क आव यक अविध (माह)
/ Duration of ePBG required (Months): **12**

- (a). जेम क शत के अनुसार ईएमड छूट के इ छुक बडर को संबंिधत केटेगर के िलए बड के साथ वैध समिथ त द तावेज़ तुत करने है। एमएसई केटेगर के अंतग त केवल व तुओं के िलए विनमा ता तथा सेवाओं के िलए सेवा दाता ईएमड से छूट के पा ह। यापा रय को इस नीित के दायरे से बाहर रखा गया है।
/ EMD EXEMPTION: The bidder seeking EMD exemption, must submit the valid supporting document.

# CURRENT_PAGE_RAW_OCR_TEXT

- For the relevant category as per GeM GTC with the bid. Under MSE category, only manufacturers for goods and Service Providers for Services are eligible for exemption from EMD. Traders are excluded from the purview of this Policy.

- लाभाथ / Beneficiary:
- SR MANAGER
- SRU SAIL, Steel Authority of India Limited, SAIL Refractory Unit, Ministry of Steel
- (Vipin Kumar)

- बोली वभाजन लागू नह ं कया गया / Bid splitting not applied.

- एमआईआई अनुपालन / MII Compliance
- एमआईआई अनुपालन / MII Compliance: Yes

1. Estimated Bid Value indicated above is being declared solely for the purpose of guidance on EMD amount and for determining the Eligibility Criteria related to Turn Over, Past Performance and Project / Past Experience etc. This has no relevance or bearing on the price to be quoted by the bidders and is also not going to have any impact on bid participation. Also, this is not going to be used as a criteria in determining reasonableness of quoted prices which would be determined by the buyer based on its own assessment of reasonableness and based on competitive prices received in Bid / RA process.

2. Past Experience of Similar Services: The bidder must have successfully executed/completed similar Services over the last three years i.e. the current financial year and the last three financial years (ending month of March prior to the bid opening):
- One similar completed service costing not less than the amount equal to 80% (eighty percent) of the estimated cost.

3. Reverse Auction would be conducted amongst all the technically qualified bidders except the Highest quoting bidder. The technically qualified Highest Quoting bidder will not be allowed to participate in RA. However, H-1 will also be allowed to participate in RA in following cases:
- i. If number of technically qualified bidders are only 2 or 3.
- ii. If Buyer has chosen to split the bid amongst N sellers, and H1 bid is coming within N.
- iii. In case Primary product of only one OEM is left in contention for participation in RA on elimination of H-1.
- iv. If L-1 is non-MSE and H-1 is eligible MSE and H-1 price is coming within price band of 15% of Non-MSE L-1.
- v. If L-1 is non-MII and H-1 is eligible MII and H-1 price is coming within price band of 20% of Non-MII L-1.

- If the buyer has mentioned MSE purchase preference in ATC then service provider is required to upload necessary documents for MSE purchase preference for verification by the buyer during evaluation.

- अित र / Additional Qualification / Data Required

- Scope of Work: 1759746563.pdf

- Payment Terms: 1759746600.pdf

- GEM Availability Report (GAR): 1759746626.pdf

- Undertaking of Competent Authority is mandatory to create Custom Bid for Services. Please download standard format document and upload: 1759746685.pdf

- Custom Bid For Services - MANUALLY LOADING AND STACKING OF 25 Or 50 KG CAPACITY BAGGED OF REFRACTORY MATERIAL ON TO TRUCKS (1)

# तकनीक
## तकनीक विश याँ
### विश याँ /Technical Specifications

#### ववरण
##### ववरण/ Specification                           मू य
मू य/ Values

### कोर
#### कोर / Core

- **Description /Nomenclature of Service Proposed**: MANUALLY LOADING AND STACKING OF 25 or 50 KG CAPACITY BAGGED OF REFRACTORY MATERIAL ON TO TRUCKS
- **Regulatory/ Statutory Compliance of Service**: YES
- **Compliance of Service to SOW, STC, SLA etc**: YES

### एडऑन
#### एडऑन /Addon(s)

### इनपुट
#### इनपुट कर
- **कर  े डट**: (आईट सी) तथा (आरसीएम) /Input Tax Credit(ITC) and Reverse Charge(RCM) Details
- **जीएसट पर इनपुट कर  े डट**:
- **ITC on GST**: 100%
- **ITC on GST Cess**: 100%

### अित र
#### अित र  विश
- **विश  द तावेज़**: /Additional Specification Documents

### परे षती
#### परे षती/ रपो ट ग
- **अिधकार**: /Consignees/Reporting Officer and Quantity
- **संसाधन क मा**: / The quantity of procurement
- **अित र आव यकता**: /Additional Requirement

| .सं. | अिधकार /Consignee Reporting/Officer | पता/Address | "1" indicates /Additional Requirement |
|------|---------------------------------------|-------------|-------------------------------------|
| 1    | Jogeswar Guiya                       | 829132,SAIL REFRACTORY UNIT BHANDARIDAH, P.O. BHANDARIDAH- 829132, DIST BOKARO | N/A |

### Buyer Added Bid Specific Terms and Conditions
1. **Generic**
- **OPTION CLAUSE**: The buyer can increase or decrease the contract quantity or contract duration up to 25 percent at the time of issue of the contract. However, once the contract is issued, contract quantity or contract duration can only be increased up to 25 percent. Bidders are bound to accept the revised quantity or duration.

2. **Generic**

# Actual Delivery Address
- SAIL REFRACTORY UNIT
- BHANDARIDAH
- DIST: BOKARO
- PO: BHANDARIDAH – 829132
- JHARKHAND

## Escalation Matrix For Service Support
- Bidder/OEM must provide Escalation Matrix of Telephone Numbers for Service Support.

## Dedicated / Toll Free Telephone No. for Service Support
- BIDDER/OEM must have Dedicated/toll Free Telephone No. for Service Support.

# Buyer Added Bid Specific ATC
- Buyer uploaded ATC document Click here to view the file.

# अ वीकरण/Disclaimer
- The additional terms and conditions have been incorporated by the Buyer after approval of the Competent Authority in Buyer Organization, whereby Buyer organization is solely responsible for the impact of these clauses on the bidding process, its outcome, and consequences thereof including any eccentricity/restriction arising in the bidding process due to these ATCs and due to modification of technical specifications and/or terms and conditions governing the bid. If any clause(s) is/are incorporated by the Buyer regarding the following, the bid and resultant contracts shall be treated as null and void and such bids may be cancelled by GeM at any stage of the bidding process without any notice:

1. Definition of Class I and Class II suppliers in the bid not in line with the extant Order/Office Memorandum issued by DPIIT in this regard.
3. Publishing Custom/BOQ bids for items for which regular GeM categories are available without any Category item bunched with it.
4. Creating BoQ bid for single item.
5. Mentioning specific Brand or Make or Model or Manufacturer or Dealer name.
6. Mandating submission of documents in physical form as a pre-requisite to qualify bidders.
7. Floating/creation of work contracts as Custom Bids in Services.
8. Seeking sample with bid or approval of samples during bid evaluation process. (However, in bids for attached categories, trials are allowed as per approved procurement policy of the buyer nodal Ministries)
9. Mandating foreign/international certifications even in case of existence of Indian Standards without specifying equivalent Indian Certification/standards.
10. Seeking experience from specific organization/department/institute only or from foreign/export experience.
11. Creating bid for items from irrelevant categories.
12. Incorporating any clause against the MSME policy and Preference to Make in India Policy.
13. Reference of conditions published on any external site or reference to external documents/clauses.
14. Asking for any Tender fee/Bid Participation fee/Auction fee in case of Bids/Forward Auction, as the case may be.
15. Any ATC clause in contravention with GeM GTC Clause 4 (xiii)(h) will be invalid. In case of multiple L1 bidders against a service bid, the buyer shall place the Contract by selection of a bidder amongst the L-1 bidders through a Random Algorithm executed by GeM system.

# Buyer Added ATC Clauses
- Buyer added ATC Clauses which are in contravention of clauses defined by buyer in system generated bid template as indicated above in the Bid Details section, EMD Detail, ePBG Detail and MII and MSE Purchase Preference sections of the bid, unless otherwise allowed by GeM GTC.

# Additional Items in Category Based Bid
- In a category based bid, adding additional items, through buyer added additional scope of work/ additional terms and conditions/or any other document.
- If buyer needs more items along with the main item, the same must be added through bunching category based items or by bunching custom catalogs or bunching a BoQ with the main category based item, the same must not be done through ATC or Scope of Work.

# Seller Representation
- If any seller has any objection/grievance against these additional clauses or otherwise on any aspect of this bid, they can raise their representation against the same by using the Representation window provided in the bid details field in Seller dashboard after logging in as a seller within 4 days of bid publication on GeM.
- Buyer is duty bound to reply to all such representations and would not be allowed to open bids if he fails to reply to such representations.

# Compliance with Laws
- All GeM Sellers / Service Providers are mandated to ensure compliance with all the applicable laws / acts / rules including but not limited to all Labour Laws such as:
- The Minimum Wages Act, 1948
- The Payment of Wages Act, 1936
- The Payment of Bonus Act, 1965
- The Equal Remuneration Act, 1976
- The Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972
- Any non-compliance will be treated as breach of contract and Buyer may take suitable actions as per GeM Contract.

# Governing Terms
- This Bid is governed by the सामा य िनयम और शत /General Terms and Conditions, conditions stipulated in Bid and Service Level Agreement specific to this Service as provided in the Marketplace.
- However, in case any condition specified in सामा य िनयम और शत /General Terms and Conditions is contradicted by the conditions stipulated in Service Level Agreement, then it will override the conditions in the General Terms and Conditions.

# Restrictions on Procurement
- In terms of GeM GTC clause 26 regarding Restrictions on procurement from a bidder of a country which shares a land border with India, any bidder from a country which shares a land border with India will be eligible to bid in this tender only if the bidder is registered with the Competent Authority.
- While participating in bid, Bidder has to undertake compliance of this and any false declaration and non-compliance of this would be a ground for immediate termination of the contract and further legal action in accordance with the laws.

# Thank You
---ध यवाद/Thank You---