# GeM Bid Document

## Bid Number:
GEM/2025/B/6743895

## Dated:
30-09-2025

## Bid Details

### Bid End Date/Time:
21-10-2025 16:00:00

### Bid Opening Date/Time:
21-10-2025 16:30:00

### Bid Offer Validity (From End Date):
120 Days

## Ministry/State Name:
Ministry Of Mines

## Department Name:
Materials

## Organisation Name:
National Aluminium Company Limited, Bhubaneswar

## Office Name:
Alumina Refinery Nalco Damanjodi

## Total Quantity:
3

## Item Category:
BUTTERFLY VALVES

## Strings used in GeMARPTS:
BUTTERFLY VALVES

### Searched Result generated in GeMARPTS:
- Butterfly Valves (V2) as per IS 13095, Stationary Valve
- Regulated Lead Acid Batteries (V2) as per IS 15549
- Proportional Valves - BHEL
- Butterfly Valve (as per API Std. 609)
- API 6D Ball Valves
- Water Fittings - Copper Alloy Float Valves (Horizontal Plunger Type) as per IS: 1703
- Cast Copper Alloy Screw Down Bib Taps and Stop Valves for Water Services as per IS 781
- Diaphragm type valves for general purpose - IS 11791
- Copper alloy Taps/Stop Valves (V2) Conforming to IS 8931
- Foot Valves for Water Works Purpose as per IS 4038 (Latest)

## Relevant Categories selected for notification:
Butterfly Valves (V2) as per IS 13095

## MSE Exemption for Years of Experience and Turnover:
No

## Startup Exemption for Years of Experience and Turnover:
No

### Document required from seller:
*In case any bidder is seeking exemption from Experience / Turnover Criteria, the supporting documents to prove his eligibility for exemption must be uploaded for evaluation by the buyer.*

# बड ववरण / Bid Details

- या आप िन वदाकार  ारा अपलोड कए गए द तावेज़ को
- दखाना चाहते हैं?
- Yes (Documents submitted as part of a clarification or representation during the tender/bid process will also be displayed to other participated bidders after log in)

# बड लगाने क समय सीमा
- वतः नह ं बढ़ाने के लिए आव यक बड क सं या।
- Minimum number of bids required to disable automatic bid extension: **4**

# दन क सं या
- जनके िलए बड लगाने क समय-सीमा बढ़ाई जाएगी।
- Number of days for which Bid would be auto-extended: **10**

# ऑटो ए सट शन
- अिधकतम कतनी बार कया जाना है।
- Number of Auto Extension count: **3**

# बड से रवस नीलामी स  य
- कया/Bid to RA enabled: **Yes**

# रवस नीलामी यो यता
- िनयम/RA Qualification Rule: **H1-Highest Priced Bid Elimination**

# बड का कार
- /Type of Bid: **Two Packet Bid**

# तकनीक मू यांकन
- के दौरान तकनीक प ीकरण हेतु अनुमत समय
- Time allowed for Technical Clarifications during technical evaluation: **2 Days**

# Inspection Required
- (By Inspection Authority / Agencies pre-registered with GeM): **No**

# मू यांकन प ित
- /Evaluation Method: **Total value wise evaluation**

# म य थता खंड
- /Arbitration Clause: **No**

# सुलह खंड
- /Mediation Clause: **No**

# ईएमड ववरण
- /EMD Detail:
- आव यकता/Required: **No**

# ईपीबीजी ववरण
- /ePBG Detail:
- आव यकता/Required: **No**

# बोली वभाजन
- लागू नह ं कया गया/ Bid splitting not applied.

# एमआईआई खर द वर यता
- /MII Purchase Preference: **2**

# MII Purchase Preference

## MSE Purchase Preference
- Preference shall be given to Class 1 local supplier as defined in public procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017.
- Minimum local content to qualify as a Class 1 local supplier is denoted in the bid document.
- Bidder must upload a certificate from the OEM regarding the percentage of local content and details of locations for local value addition.
- For bids > Rs 10 Crore, the declaration must be certified by a statutory auditor or cost auditor.
- Only Class-I and Class-II Local suppliers as per MII order dated 4.6.2020 are eligible to bid.
- Non-Local suppliers are not eligible to participate, but eligible micro and small enterprises can participate.
- Refer to OM No.F.1/4/2021-PPD dated 18.05.2023 for compliance.

## MSE Purchase Preference
- Purchase preference will be given to MSEs with valid Udyam Registration.
- Credentials must be validated online through Udyam Registration portal.
- For services, the bidder must be the service provider of the offered service.
- Relevant documentary evidence must be uploaded with the bid.
- If L-1 is not an MSE and MSE Seller(s) have quoted within L-1 + 15%, they will be given the opportunity to match L-1 price.
- Contract will be awarded for 25% of total quantity to MSEs.
- Benefits of MSE will be allowed only if seller is validated online in GeM profile and approved by Buyer.

## Reverse Auction
- Conducted among all technically qualified bidders except the highest quoting bidder.
- H-1 may participate in RA under certain conditions:
1. If the number of technically qualified bidders is only 2 or 3.
2. If the Buyer has chosen to split the bid among N sellers, and H1 bid is within N.
3. If only one OEM's primary product is left for participation in RA after eliminating H-1.
4. If L-1 is non-MSE and H-1 is eligible MSE within 15% of L-1 price.
5. If L-1 is non-MII and H-1 is eligible MII within 20% of L-1 price.

## Butterfly Valves (3 pieces)
- Minimum 50% and 20% Local Content required for qualifying as Class 1 and Class 2 Local Supplier respectively.

## Technical Specifications
- [Details to be provided]

# Specification Document

## Buyer / Buyer Added Bid Specific Terms and Conditions

1. **Generic**
- Bidders are advised to check applicable GST on their own before quoting. Buyer will not take any responsibility in this regards. GST reimbursement will be as per actuals or as per applicable rates (whichever is lower), subject to the maximum of quoted GST %.

2. **Generic**
- Registration / Empanelment Requirement: Contract shall be awarded to only such sellers, who are registered / empanelled / approved / enlisted with Alumina Refinery Nalco Damanjodi for the required goods / service category on the date of bid opening. Prospective bidders (if not already registered), are advised to get themselves registered with the said registration authority before bid opening date. (It is certified that the registration is granted by the registering agency as per Rule 150 of GFR following a fair, transparent and reasonable procedure.)

3. **Generic**
- While generating invoice in GeM portal, the seller must upload scanned copy of GST invoice and the screenshot of GST portal confirming payment of GST.

4. **Scope of Supply**
- Scope of supply (Bid price to include all cost components): Only supply of Goods.

5. **Certificates**
- Bidder's offer is liable to be rejected if they don't upload any of the certificates / documents sought in the Bid document, ATC and Corrigendum if any.

6. **Buyer Added Bid Specific ATC**
- Buyer Added text based ATC clauses:
- i) Bidder shall submit point wise confirmation of specification as well as special conditions along with the offer. The bidder must upload signed buyer specification document/specification document.

# Vendor Bid Submission Guidelines

- NALCO is a SA8000 certified company. All bidders interested in supplying material to NALCO should be committed to social accountability. Submit the completely filled SA8000 questionnaire provided with the tender (without any alteration to the format) along with the offer. SA8000 certified companies can submit their certification. Non-compliance may lead to rejection of the offer.

# TDS under Section 194Q

- Finance Act 2021 has introduced new Sections 194Q (Deduction of tax at Source on payment for purchase of goods) and 206AB (Special provision for deduction of tax at source for non-filers of income-tax return), effective from 01st July, 2021.

- NALCO, as Buyer under Section 194Q, will deduct TDS at the prescribed rate of 0.1% on the purchase value of goods exceeding Rs.50 Lakhs in a Financial year.

- Vendors/Sellers are not to collect tax at source under section 206C(1H) of the Act from 01.07.2021, if applicable.

- Income Tax TDS, as applicable at the prevailing rate on the gross amount billed, shall be deducted from the contractor's bills.

- Vendors categorized as "specified person" under Section 206AB shall be liable for TDS at a higher rate. Vendors are advised to submit self-certified copies of Income Tax return (ITR) for the two previous years along with the Invoice/Bill.

# Payment Term

- Standard GeM payment term applicable: 100% payment will be released within 10 days of issue of consignee receipt-cum-acceptance certificate (CRAC) and online submission of bills unless otherwise specified in STC/ATC.

# Compliance and Communication

- No communication shall be entertained outside GeM regarding the subject tender. Clarifications may be raised on GeM only.

- Bidder has to read all conditions carefully in the bid document attached in the PDF format with Buyers Specification document in the technical specification section.

# Delivery and Price Reduction Schedule

- Delivery period is the essence of the contract. Materials should be delivered within the delivery time. Failing which, NALCO may reduce the price @1/2% of order value per week, subject to a maximum of 5% of the undelivered portion or cancel the Order and purchase from an alternative source at the risk and cost of the supplier.

- The manufacturer’s authorization must be on a tender-specific basis (clearly mention bid number in the tender).

- If the manufacturer/OEM has submitted the bid, the bids of its authorized dealer will not be considered.

# CURRENT_PAGE_RAW_OCR_TEXT

- One agent cannot represent more than one manufacturer or quote on their behalf in a particular tender enquiry.

- Note: Prospective bidder interested to be registered as a supplier of these items, should fill up the vendor registration form hoisted on the website www.nalcoindia.com and submit separately to NALCO. The normal registration process shall thereafter be followed by the plants/units for registering the eligible suppliers. This information is solely for the purpose of exploring the possibility of enhancing the vendor base, wherever required and should not be considered as a purchase enquiry. Purchase enquiry in future may be issued to such suppliers, if registered.

# Buyer Added Bid Specific ATC

- Buyer uploaded ATC document Click here to view the file.

## अ वीकरण/Disclaimer

- The additional terms and conditions have been incorporated by the Buyer after approval of the Competent Authority in Buyer Organization, whereby Buyer organization is solely responsible for the impact of these clauses on the bidding process, its outcome, and consequences thereof including any eccentricity/restriction arising in the bidding process due to these ATCs and due to modification of technical specifications and/or terms and conditions governing the bid. If any clause(s) is/are incorporated by the Buyer regarding following, the bid and resultant contracts shall be treated as null and void and such bids may be cancelled by GeM at any stage of bidding process without any notice:

1. Definition of Class I and Class II suppliers in the bid not in line with the extant Order/Office Memorandum issued by DPIIT in this regard.

3. Publishing Custom/BOQ bids for items for which regular GeM categories are available without any Category item bunched with it.

4. Creating BoQ bid for single item.

5. Mentioning specific Brand or Make or Model or Manufacturer or Dealer name.

6. Mandating submission of documents in physical form as a pre-requisite to qualify bidders.

7. Floating/creation of work contracts as Custom Bids in Services.

8. Seeking sample with bid or approval of samples during bid evaluation process. (However, in bids for attached categories, trials are allowed as per approved procurement policy of the buyer nodal Ministries)

9. Mandating foreign/international certifications even in case of existence of Indian Standards without specifying equivalent Indian Certification/standards.

10. Seeking experience from specific organization/department/institute only or from foreign/export experience.

11. Creating bid for items from irrelevant categories.

12. Incorporating any clause against the MSME policy and Preference to Make in India Policy.

13. Reference of conditions published on any external site or reference to external documents/clauses.

14. Asking for any Tender fee/Bid Participation fee/Auction fee in case of Bids/Forward Auction, as the case may be.

15. Buyer added ATC Clauses which are in contravention of clauses defined by buyer in system generated bid template as indicated above in the Bid Details section, EMD Detail, ePBG Detail and MII and MSE Purchase Preference sections of the bid, unless otherwise allowed by GeM GTC.

16. In a category based bid, adding additional items, through buyer added additional scope of work/additional terms and conditions/or any other document. If buyer needs more items along with the main item, the same must be added through bunching category based items or by bunching custom catalogs or bunching a BoQ with the main category based item, the same must not be done through ATC or Scope of Work.

- Further, if any seller has any objection/grievance against these additional clauses or otherwise on any aspect of this bid, they can raise their representation against the same by using the Representation window provided in.

# Bid Details and Compliance

- The bid details field in Seller dashboard must be checked after logging in as a seller within 4 days of bid publication on GeM.

# Compliance with Laws

- All GeM Sellers / Service Providers must comply with applicable laws, including:
- The Minimum Wages Act, 1948
- The Payment of Wages Act, 1936
- The Payment of Bonus Act, 1965
- The Equal Remuneration Act, 1976
- The Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972
- Non-compliance will be treated as a breach of contract, allowing the Buyer to take suitable actions as per GeM Contract.

# General Terms and Conditions

- This Bid is also governed by the General Terms and Conditions.

# Restrictions on Procurement

- In terms of GeM GTC clause 26 regarding restrictions on procurement from a bidder of a country sharing a land border with India:
- Any bidder from such a country is eligible to bid only if registered with the Competent Authority.

---ध यवाद/Thank You---
ध यवाद